When you launch the spring tool suit, by default, it picks up a JDK that it will use to compile and
run our Java applications, it will look at the environment variables and it will automatically pick
up JDK to ensure that it is using the right JDK or Java go to the spring tool suite the very first menu item.
Go to preferences.
And search for jre.
Click on installed jre's that will show you which Jre or Jdk it is using.
Make sure that this is pointing to your JDK folder.
If you edit it, you can see that it is pointing to my JDK folder sometimes on Windows machines, it
will pick up a jre which comes by default with Windows.
If that is the case, if it is pointing to a jre instead of a JDK folder, delete that entry and add
an entry.
Click on Standard VM, say next and point it to your JDK home folder.
There should be only one entry which points to your Java installations or Jdk's home folder and not
the jre home folder.
If you leave it to point to the jre home folder when you use tools like Maven to build your projects, you will
have an issue because those tools need JDK to compile your classes, not just the jre
So ensure that you have an entry that points to your JDK folder.